we're going to join the press conference
with the health secretary the Downing
Street Daily coronavirus briefing I'm
joined by the chief medical officer
professor Chris Witte and the deputy
chief scientific adviser Angela McLean I
want to start by thanking everyone who
is saying at home even in this sunshine
together we are slowing the spread of
this virus and I want to pay a special
tribute today to captain Tom Moore who
at the age of 99 has raised over seven
million pounds so far for NHS charities
by completing a hundred laps of his
garden captain Tom you're an inspiration
to us all and we thank you at the core
of our plan is to protect the NHS from
being overwhelmed so its ability to care
for everybody who needs that care is
always there and is never outmatched by
the ability of the virus to do us harm
that is central to our plan and I'm glad
to say that the spare capacity in
critical care in the NHS today has
reached a new record high of two
thousand six hundred and fifty-seven
vets expanding the NHS faster than the
growth in demand has been a critical
objective throughout this crisis and it
means that every single person who's
accessed NHS care has been able to get
the very best available at no point has
the NHS been unable to offer care to
people suffering from coronavirus now I
know at the start of this crisis some
people said that would be impossible but
so far we've met this objective
throughout and I want to thank all those
involved for their part in this national
effort on the most recent figures three
hundred and thirteen thousand seven
hundred and sixty nine people have now
been tested for coronavirus of these 98
thousand four hundred and seventy six
people have tested positive the number
of patients in hospital with symptoms is
now nineteen thousand five hundred
twenty nine twelve thousand eight
hundred and sixty eight people have
sadly died an increase of seven hundred
and sixty-one this all just goes to show
why we cannot let up in our efforts we
cannot let go of the hard work that's
been done so far this shared sacrifice
and I know it's a sacrifice is starting
to work but we will not lift these
measures until it is safe to do so
everyone who stays at home is doing
their bit
protecting the NHS and saving lives but
while everyone else stays at home to
save lives our health and care workers
go out to work to save lives and today I
want a to focus on Social Care I want to
set out the next steps in our action
plan for social care that we're
publishing today from the moment of the
emergence of coronavirus we've known
that some of the most vulnerable to this
disease are in social care and we've
been taking action right from the start
we first set out guidance back in
February and today I can tell you what
further steps we're now able to make our
goal throughout has been to protect
residents and to support our 1.5 million
colleagues who work in social care we've
injected an extra 1.6 billion pounds and
as the Chancellor said we will do
whatever it takes this is our plan
first and foremost from the start we've
focused on the need to control the
spread of infection in social care
settings
today we strengthened the rules so that
all care home residents who are
discharged from hospital will be tested
before being admitted into their care
home will test all symptomatic care home
residents and as I announced last Friday
we've introduced testing for all social
care colleagues and members of their
households who meet who need a test at
the same time we're increasing again PPE
supplies to social care
we're creating a supply logistics and
distribution network of unprecedented
scale building on the PPE plan are set
out on Friday over the next three weeks
we'll continue priority drops to the
local resilience forums who distribute
to the social care system according to
local need while we roll out our new
online delivery system for social care
settings this will be integrated with
the NHS supply chain central PPE
logistical operations with kit shipped
directly to social care providers via
the Royal Mail all of this will
contribute to slowing the spread of
coronavirus within care homes I want
also to enhance support for our social
care workforce one of the things that
I'm most proud of during this terrible
crisis is that people have held health
and social care workers in such high
esteem across the board it's not flat
for the NHS it's clap for our carers and
to take this further we're today
introducing a single brand for social
care to symbolize the entire care
profession this is something I know so
many people in the profession have
called for this badge will be a badge of
honor in a very real sense allowing
social care staff proudly and publicly
to identify themselves just like NHS
staff do with that famous blue and white
logo I know that many businesses will
want to offer the same recognition of
benefit benefits as they do wonderfully
to the NHS we've asked the supermarket's
to confirm that social care workers can
have the same priority access and I know
that the public value your work in care
as much as I do I also know that we need
more people to return to social care or
choose to serve for the first time to
make that happen we're strengthening our
national recruitment campaign with the
aim of recruiting tens of thousands more
people into social care
and we will pay for the initial
induction training this is a job where
you have the chance to make a difference
to people's lives every single day that
you go to work and I've seen as I'm sure
we've all seen the amazing efforts of
good social care I've seen it with
elderly members of my own family I've
seen the tenderness and the dedication
with which people in social care support
our loved ones at their time of greatest
need
everyone knows the job isn't easy
whether supporting people of working age
who are some of the most vulnerable in
society all supporting people and their
families with dignity at the end of
their lives but I know what a fulfilling
profession it is and I know that many
will answer our call there's one other
thing and what other change I want to
make which is giving people the right to
say goodbye one of the important things
that care homes do is support people at
the end of their life
sadly even in normal times each month
about 10,000 people die in care homes
and our social care colleagues work
incredibly hard to ensure support for
people and dignity to people at the end
of their lives wanting to be with
someone you love
at the end of their life is one of the
deepest human instincts and it's a
moment that will be with you forever
done right it can help those left behind
to cope and it brings comfort to those
who are dying coronavirus of course has
made this much more difficult and I've
been really moved and upset by some of
the heartbreaking stories of people
dying without a loved one nearby as a
father of a 13 year old myself the
reports of Ishmael dying aged 13 without
a parent as his bedside made me weep and
the sight of his coffin being lowered
into a grave without an
of his family present was too awful so
I'm pleased to say that working with
public health England the care sector
and many others we're introducing new
procedures so we can limit the risk of
infection while wherever possible giving
people's closest loved ones the chance
to say goodbye and we're making crystal
clear that it is unacceptable for
advanced care plans including do not
attempt to resuscitate orders to be
applied in a blanket fashion to any
group of people this must always be a
personalized process as it always has
been I want to end by addressing carers
directly as much as the doctors the
nurses the paramedics you are on the
frontline in this battle I want to thank
you for your courage and your commitment
for doing paid or unpaid formal or
informal the work that you do difficult
demanding vitally necessary and you do
it with such love and care and attention
taking on the extra shifts that might be
needed to fill the gaps left by self
isolating colleagues juggling your own
caring responsibilities very often
providing dignity and comfort to people
in some of the most difficult
circumstances we as a nation stand with
you and I say to everyone watching you
can stand with our carers to by staying
at home to protect the NHS and protect
Social Care and save lives with that I
want to pass to Angela to set out the
most recent information about the
progress of the disease thank you the
information we wanted to start with
today is evidence about how people
really are staying at home so what's
shown here is roughly speaking for the
last month so from the 19th of March to
the 14th of April how much use there has
been of different kinds of travel
compared to how it was in February and
what you see is that for all the
different colored lines that's now down
to
less than a third of what it was back in
February and that for the tube and
national rail is particularly low so
this is real hard data to show that all
of us have done what we were asked and
stayed home if I could have the next
slide please
what we see is part of the evidence
about how that is working so this is new
UK cases in blue is people diagnosed in
hospital and in orange is people whose
diagnosis has been outside Hospital in
in the second new pillar of commercial
swabbing activity but really what and
the time goes from 21st of March to the
15th of April and what I see that
encourages me when I look at that slide
is two weeks now of definitely not
increasing any more I see I see a
flattened curve and for me that is
evidence that what everybody has done
together has worked for us all if I can
at the next slide please
that's further reflected in these deep
data about people in hospital beds with
coded 19 across the country that fell by
1 percent yesterday and in Greater
London it fell by 5 percent so once
again what I see here is evidence that
everybody's efforts to stay home and not
have as much contact with other people
as would be normal is having the impact
that we hoped it would have and bring
this epidemic to a much better
trajectory where this is currently flat
and no longer rising final slide please
the final slide final slide is comparing
the sad deaths that we've had in our
country with those in other countries
these curves are all lined up so they
all start on the day at which each of
those countries first had 50 deaths and
you can see the line in dark blue in the
middle there
is the United Kingdom's of trajectory
still climbing with it always expected
that to still be climbing even though
the number of new cases is starting to
flatten off and that's because these are
very lagged data because of course sadly
it takes a while for people first of all
to succumb to this disease and then
secondly for those cases to be reported
the United Kingdom data there are from
public health England and from our
devolved administrations and we're
watching and hoping that those two will
soon start to follow a flatter
trajectory and with that I think I will
stop with today's data thanks very much
if we go to questions from the media the
first question is from the BBC and Hugh
Pym thank you very much so - you've
state you're now offering testing to
social care staff and care home
residents where appropriate but how is
that going to be achieved giving given
the pressures on capacity and your
existing promises to NHS staff and when
exactly will it be delivered thanks you
well I'm very glad to say that we now
are testing regularly NHS staff across
the board and we rolled that out from a
last weekend and we have started also
testing Social Care staff
4100 social care staff have already been
referred for tests and as our testing
capacity increases so this means that
more and more people can be tested and
in fact we have as some people have
reported over the Easter weekend we had
some spare capacity because the number
of people coming forward for testing was
not as high over the over the Easter
weekend which means that we can now
expand testing not only to staff in
social care but also within social care
settings the previous rule had been that
wants five people in a social care
setting and tested positive then then
others with symptom
were deemed to have coronavirus because
it was highly likely to be grown of ice
we will now ensure that everybody who
has symptoms gets tested and the
critical other change is that those
leaving Hospital will now be tested and
they will be put into isolation until
those test results come through and if
the test results come through positive
then they'll be held in isolation to
make sure that they protect those
currently in the care home so this is a
positive step all about strengthening
the tools that we have to reduce the
spread of corona virus within care
settings and to support the care sector
staff that I've spoken about that are
doing so much to look after some of the
most vulnerable of course given your
making quite slow progress to your
100,000 a day target by the end of this
month how are you actually going to
cover this large number of social care
staff and NHS Tov and hospital patients
how is it going to be achieved well as I
say key we're building capacity of
testing all the time and the reason that
the figures on the number of tests done
have been flat over the last couple of
days has been because of people not not
enough demand rather than not enough
capacity and that gives us the space to
be able to increase the number of people
eligible for testing so now we have
testing available right across the NHS
and social care for all those who need
it and I'm very pleased we've been able
to expand capacity so that that can
happen and as we build capacity further
over this month and then beyond to that
hundred thousand a day target by and at
the end of this month will expend expand
further that those who are eligible for
tests all as part of the plan to get a
hold of this virus and to make sure that
we support the key public services that
we need at this moment thanks very much
Robert Peston from ITV afternoon to all
of you a couple of very quick questions
I think for all
you the data seems to indicate that we
are either at or past the peak of this
phase of the epidemic now in countries
where that is so Spain Germany Italy
Austria Denmark they are all already
talking about how and when they will
ease the lockdown
what is it about the British people that
means you can't trust them you feel to
continue to isolate if you just talk a
bit about what the process of easing
these restrictions will be and secondly
those who work in social care homes and
settings have been saying for weeks that
they are not getting enough help and
guidance from you about how to isolate
those who are showing coded 19 symptoms
they're deeply worried about infection
to other vulnerable people in those
homes is there more you can do to
extract those people with these symptoms
and put them in safer settings well part
of the plan that we've set out on that
second question is precisely about more
isolation and maybe Chris can say a bit
more about this and I know that Chris
will want to comment on the point about
the peak because the you're right that
the clear message is that it is too
early to make changes and therefore the
message to the public watching is that
everybody can play their part by staying
at home which protects the NHS and saves
lives and that message has is very clear
and very straightforward and of course I
understand there's a broad discussion
about what next but we're very very
clear about the the thing that people
need to do now Chris so on the issue of
the peak our view is that it's probably
reaching the peak overall and that's
what the flattening shows I think it's
important and I'm saying this because
new data will come out presumably
tomorrow my expectation would be that
the number of deaths may well go up
because there has been in every after
every weekend
we see a dip over the weekend and for
the two days afterwards and then an
increase as we catch up with the numbers
and after a long Ford four-day weekend
that may well be a bounce up tomorrow
so let's not everything is very
important we don't get to the point
where we say look are the numbers of
deaths that means we've passed the peak
but we do all think that this is
flattened out sadly we do think that
high numbers of deaths will continue for
a certainly a short while on from where
we are at the moment I think there's an
additional reason that we are verse so I
think at the moment we are not yet at
the point where we can say confidently
and safely this is now past the peak and
we can start thinking very much about
the next phases
I think the additional technical point
I'd make and there are others I could
make as well is that at this point in
time we do not know where the are the
force of transmission is between about
0.5 and about 1 it's in that range the
more we have an understanding of where
that is which will happen as we go over
the next 10 days or so the more easy it
is for us to judge exactly how we can go
through to the next phase in a way
that's properly evidence based so there
are there are technical reasons as well
as peaking reasons for being cautious at
this point just to reiterate what Chris
just said that what we would what we
really need is to observe what happens
with new cases as they arrive in
hospital in order to make estimates
about how much impact all this very hard
work that people have done has had
because that's absolutely crucial for us
to understand properly what changes if
any might be possible one is I didn't
hear from you any practical proposals
for how to help care homes isolate
quarantine they're vulnerable
although those who are suffering to
protect other vulnerable members of
those homes because we've all seen large
numbers of deaths within single homes
that you know some of those families
would have thought could have been
avoided if there'd been better
quarantine around those who fall sick
and and and and and secondly I think
that many people don't understand it I
don't think they're saying you've got to
essentially name a date for when these
restrictions on our civil liberties will
be eased but I think they would expect
to grown-up discussion about what that
phasing of the restrictions would look
like and that simply hasn't been thought
coming from the government and it is
forthcoming from other governments well
it may be but different different
countries are in different stages in
this epidemic and one of the things that
I think we've learned during this crisis
is that the clarity of the guidance to
the public is incredibly important and
hence we repeat it and and and it's
increasingly understood and strongly
supported so that is that's that's good
and on the other point on cams of course
there's detailed guidance and there's
further guidance in the action plan that
we're publishing today of course amongst
the 25,000 different care settings
approximately approximately three-fifths
of which our care and nursing homes
there are very different circumstances
in terms of how isolation is best done
in some cases particularly in the larger
settings it's possible to have isolation
within the home in other cases it'll be
necessary to isolate by having a
resident stay elsewhere but there's
there's detail in the guidance and then
there's an awful lot of work that goes
on at a local level with the directors
of adult social care to make sure that
we get those those details that that
isolation done as well as is possible in
these incredibly varied settings across
the country I don't know if you want to
add well I think when to reinforce the
point that actually there's much more
variety between different care and
nursing home settings than there is
between different hospitals so do advise
does have to be tailored very much to
the the specific setting and on your
your wider point what we have tried to
do is lay out very clearly some of the
trade-offs that will have to be made
just
health side between different for
example forms of mortality the direct
ones from coded the impact immediately
on the NHS emergency services the
longer-term
and medium to medium to longer term
impact of having to reorient the NHS
towards coded over the medium term and
the long term impact of socio-economic
factors on health and these these do not
always end up with exactly the same
answer and what we're going to have to
do in bringing together the right
solution is to try and make sure based
on information that we will get more of
over the next while including a better
understanding of the are probably some
serology data to understand what
proportion of the population has had
this that's an additional bit of
information there were really helped us
in a sense to balance these different
very important impacts on health over
the next phase thanks very much thanks
Robert
Alex Thompson at channel 4 good
afternoon everybody
and response from all three of you would
be good if you can I'm sure you'll all
except what is obvious you've all been
late very late in dealing with the
crucial issues of of care home staff and
care home residence was that because
frankly you wanted to prioritize the
lives of younger people in hospitals at
the NHS sharp end and have people simply
died in British care homes unnecessarily
no Alex
neither of those things is the case and
very obviously not the the truth is that
as I said in my opening comments that we
first put out guidance to the to social
care in February and we've put we've
repeatedly updated that guidance
according to the circumstances according
to the progress of the disease the
increasing prevalence of the disease in
the community and in terms of the
support that's been available and what
we've been able to do today is update
that guidance and improve some of the
policies to make sure to respond to the
conditions that prevail today so that's
why we've put out the action plan now it
bill
on the work that we've been doing as I
said since the very first moment that we
understood coronavirus one of the one of
the first things we understood about
this disease is that it has a
disproportionate impact on older people
in our very first conversations about it
and therefore it was clear that
especially for care settings supporting
older people and it's also true for care
settings that support people of working
age and we were going to have to have a
particular focus and we've had that
focus throughout I don't know Angela do
you want to add anything or Chris I
suppose what I would like to add is
looking forward what are the really
burning questions obviously the
questions we talked about already today
about what to do inside care homes and
then I guess also there's a huge
question which hasn't we haven't focused
on quite so much which is well which is
how to protect the care homes that don't
yet have cases and try everything we can
to keep it that way
thanks very much Nick Martin from Sky
very good afternoon a question to all of
you are I suppose but to the secretary
of state first secretary stated it was
Saturday Sunday rather when I broached
the subject of tests and care homes with
you following a report the night before
and I have spent several days now in
care homes and I can tell that there is
now some optimism with some of what
you've said about tests but there are a
few issues that I've been hearing time
and time again and I've spent another
sobering day in a nursing home today and
one of the issues which has been
cropping up is there seems to be nurses
are telling me not just in this home but
in other homes that their egg they're
getting some pushback when it comes to
trying to send elderly residents into
hospital for treatment and at the other
end of the scale there seems to be and
we have evidence to show this that there
seems to be an eagerness to discharge
elderly from hospitals one care home was
told it was policy to clear beds
it looks like the elderly are being
cleared out of hospitals is that policy
well firstly I'd pay tribute to the work
that you've done Nick and I think that
your reports have been excellent and I
think that it's helped to shine a light
on an area that often doesn't get as
much attention as certainly as the NHS
and so I am grateful to you for that and
I'm glad that you report from optimism
from some of the steps that we've been
able to take today as testing capacity
goes up for instance to focus those
extra tests on on care homes and care
settings and so that's that's positive
I'll ask the chief medical officer to
respond on there on one of the points
that you make the point I would make is
that and the the decision to admit
somebody into hospital must be a
clinical decision based on individual
circumstances not a blanket rule and on
the discharge of course the best home
for people the best place for people who
clinically are able to be discharged is
to get them home so of course there's a
policy that when people are clinically
ready for discharge that they should be
discharged I mean that's the nature of
hospitals that's true all the time but
it's got to be made on a that individual
clinical diagnosis of the of what's best
for that individual patient no just to
reiterate well the sexual state said I
mean working in hospitals what you're
aware of is that hospitals are very good
for certain things and people need to
come into hospital for medical or
nursing care under specific
circumstances but once that isn't that
need is no longer there people should
absolutely be aiming to be discharged to
the right place for them to stay staying
in hospital is neither for most people a
particularly pleasant experience and it
is also an area where you are actually
more likely to catch infections and
other issues than you are in any other
setting and it is sensible for older and
and indeed all patients to keep hospital
stays as short as is medically or and
from a nursing point of view sensible
clearly not to be in a situation where
people have to leave hospital before
that stage
but once that point has been reached it
really does make sense from every point
of view that people do that are then
discharged back to their normal place of
residence is that you happy or is it
another question yes yes I do have a
followup with regards to tests yeah you
just be specific sector state about
numbers there are 1.6 million people
working in social care all doing a very
difficult job potentially all needing
tests how many tests have you put aside
for social care and what is the time
scale that you promise to deliver them
in and just one more question with
regards to funding you will know there
was a crisis in social care before
coronavirus came along and just a few
weeks ago the Chancellor announced 1.6
billion pounds to help communities get
through it now social care providers are
telling me across the country that they
are coming up against a brick wall from
their local authorities who are not
releasing the funds what do you say to
councils who are have been given money
to help things like Social Care would
have so far not handed it over well we
have funded councils in order to be able
to support the frontline and that's
where the money needs to get and it's
something that we watch very closely and
I work with the community secretary on
making sure that that happens and
councils of course themselves are doing
an incredible amount of hard work in
responding to this crisis both in terms
of their responsibilities for social
care and right across the board so I
support councils in this difficult time
but we also we do need to get that the
money that is there for social care and
to the frontline and there is a and then
on the other point that you raise I just
think that on testing and we currently
do have capacity to increase as I say
they've been 4,100 social care staff
referred for tests so far the CQC have
been doing brilliant work at finding
where the tests are most needed
and making sure that people are are
actively referred and we're setting out
a process with the LGA fir and the adult
direction the directors of adult social
care and the CQC and how that should
work at the moment we have spare the
capacity in the thousands and the
capacity is ramping up to as I say a
hundred thousand a day by the end of the
month and the the vast majority of that
increase will be for the NHS and Social
Care as a whole as the testing capacity
ramps up Martin back up from the Daily
Mirror good afternoon the action plan
refers to everyone in Social Care being
offered a test you need one could you
expand upon this criteria does it mean
any care home residents or carer who
asks for a test will get one or is it
only for symptomatic staff and could you
outline the time frame when this will be
delivered or is it it's immediately the
policy change comes in today with the
publication of the document and for
residents for staff the process of
getting staff their tests in social care
started when we change that policy on
Friday and as I say the the there's over
4,000 have already been referred to a
test and the definition of who needs it
is in the first instance those who are
symptomatic or a member of their
household if they're under household
isolation because a member of their
household is symptomatic because it is
primarily for staff to ensure that staff
can get back to work
if they are off and of course you know
if they are symptomatic and at work then
they should be at home because they
should be self isolating and as the
capacity expands so we'll be able to
expand that definition of need Laura
Hughes from the FT I've just been
informed that Laura is not able to join
us so we've got Jessica Franky's from
the
DP good afternoon I think so yeah
Secretary of State when the time comes
to lift restrictions on businesses and
people's lives will the end to lockdown
be rolled out across the country as a
whole at the same time or given that
many areas of the UK including Norfolk
in the east of England are some weeks
behind the capital in approaching the
peak of the virus will those decisions
be taken on an individual regional basis
also have a question for the chief
medical officer we've heard about some
elderly people in a Norfolk care home
some of you me living with dementia
being confined to their rooms for up to
three weeks can you offer any clarity on
whether the government's advice and
people exercising outside also applies
to care home residents and whether while
following procedures around shielding
the valuable home should be insuring
residents are able to spend time outside
of their rooms and outside getting fresh
air well thank you Jessica I'm going to
ask Angela to answer the first question
and Chris to answer the second but just
before I do I'm so glad that you're on
because one of the things I'm missing
most about in this lockdown is getting
to Suffolk where there eastern Daily
Press covers my constituency as well and
it was wonderful to see on the front
page of the newspapers this week a baby
from Brandon in Suffolk and in my
constituency who recovered at the West
Suffolk hospital and is now home and
safe and well which I know was well
covered in the Eastern Daily Press as
well Angela if you could ask a first
question is it possible to go back to
the slides and look is that helpful if
we could go back to the ones called
people in hospital beds I think you
asked an absolutely terrific question
there actually so no not possible no
okay so we would have it we what we
would expect to happen is that the peak
would be at the same time across the
country and that's because of course the
way we changed our behavior in the
country was largely speaking the same
everywhere so whilst whilst we've always
said London is two weeks ahead what we
meant was really long the most two weeks
ahead on the way up in terms of starting
first to flatten and then to go down
what we'd really expect is everywhere to
be the same that's not really exactly
what we're seeing in that London is the
number of people in hospital beds in
London for example fell by five percent
in London yesterday but across the
country it was one percent so I can tell
you that we've had quite long
discussions about that in in in various
fora we decided that there's so much
variation that we don't have a clear
answer for the differences yet and that
it's quite possible that actually we are
seeing what we would expect which is
that the the flattening off is pretty
similar in different places and that may
be one of the reasons that London seems
to be that the people in hospital beds
in London seems to be falling faster is
that perhaps in London because cases
rose faster here people responded to the
earlier bits of advice about staying
away a little bit faster that that's the
advice before the 23rd of March when
everyone was told please to stay home
thanks Chris
well I think it's important to
understand that there are two things in
a sense which are potentially
intentional or another I wouldn't want
to comment on individual cases at all
but on in general on the first the first
thing which is very clear there is no
situation there is no age there is no
condition where exercise is not a good
thing so anything that can be done to
encourage people and allow people to
take exercise is clearly a good thing
now that might mean in this period when
people lock down exercise indoors and
those lots of things people can do in
their rooms can do in their houses
nevertheless one of the reasons that we
had exercise as one of the very limited
range of reasons people could leave
their houses and still be protecting in
NHS and saving lives was for exercise
and it was for this reason exercise is
one of the best things you can possibly
do on the other hand there are a small
but important number of citizens who are
either much older or have other health
conditions where shielding where what we
try to do is prevent a situation where
they come into contact with someone who
could pass on
Ferris is a very important thing to do
for them and that's because these people
are highly vulnerable if they get an
infection - actually that going on to be
a severe infection and in some cases
sadly going on to die a much higher
proportion are very old very very very
older citizens or people with
significant health conditions are in
that situation of course if you've got
someone who is both shielding but also
needs exercise there is a bit of a
tension between those and I think in
those situations we would want people to
exercise indoors but definitely would
want them to exercise and then the final
reason why it may be sensible for some
individuals to be in their rooms is for
an infection control reason and that was
something the Secretary of State talked
about earlier if someone is suspected
they might be at risk of having the
corona virus then we say we want them to
stay in their rooms to protect other
people in their nursing home in their
residential home in their shared home so
those are those people who are care home
staff and people indeed who are living
with more vulnerable people have to be
aware of these different areas but I
certainly want to re stress the point
you're making that wherever possible
people should be taking exercise this is
very important for long-term health
thanks very much Jessica we can go back
to Laura Hughes now at the FT hi Laura
all right and the government pledged
that there would be 25,000 tests being
carried out by the middle March we're
now on April the 15th and we haven't
reached that target so why should the
public believe that you can achieve a
hundred thousand tests a day by the end
of April and secondly Northern Ireland
has just announced they are extending
their lockdown for another three weeks
can we expect the whole of the UK to
move at the same pace on the first one I
am afraid that the premise that the
question is wrong we committed 20 to
10,000 tests by the end of March which
we hit then we hit the we had previously
committed to 25,000 by the end of April
I increased that goal to a hundred
thousand so we have hit each of the
goals that we've sat on
testing and as I say we've had a
capacity continuing to ramp up this
month the demand has been lower over the
Easter weekend as staff haven't wanted
to come forward for testing which is
understandable during a long weekend and
but they've got but the goal is still
clear to reach a hundred thousand by the
end of this month and we publish all of
that data of course on the second point
this is very much a matter for the
decisions that we're going to take at
Cobra tomorrow as the UK and I think
that it's probably best to leave it at
that and say we'll wait until the formal
decision is taken tomorrow thanks very
much Isabelle Hardman at The Spectator
thank you your question firstly to the
health secretary on an issue another
issue that has a huge impact on your
brief which is domestic abuse now I know
the government has set out some help for
victims of domestic abuse and more money
for a helpline and an awareness campaign
but the frontline charities that I've
spoken to you say they're experiencing
such a big demand a big increase in
demand there's such a dramatic fall in
funding they don't see not only how they
can help victims right now but more
worryingly after the lockdown once women
are better able to escape and children
go back to school and start telling
their teachers or has been happening at
home so do you have a post to lock down
support plan in place for the predicted
surge and domestic violence that's going
to go way above what we're seeing
already in the coming months and a
second question to the chief medical
officer what impact are you expecting on
the NHS of this rise in abuse not just
in terms of physical injuries but also
in terms of the complex mental health
problems that are all those fibres have
for many years after leaving these
relationships well this is such an
important question Isabelle and I know
that the Home Secretary set out a
package of measures and have support to
those brilliant charities who help
people who are subject to domestic abuse
at the weekend
and of course we're open to expanding
that and in particular looking at this
point that you raised about what happens
afterwards and making sure that if there
is a an increase in in revealed cases
that are currently hidden because the
lockdown is ongoing that we make sure
that we give the right level of support
to all those who come forward you know
there are there are many costs to this
terrible epidemic and this sadly is one
of them and I die talked to the Home
Secretary about it I think the package
that she brought forward was very strong
but this clearly clearly we need to do
the work that's necessary to support
everybody on this and as much as is
possible given the nature of the
lockdown and the impact that it has
Chris you are a specific you know it's
clearly not possible to be sure exactly
what the impact implications of this
will be in terms of domestic abuse over
time and I think anybody who claims to
know that it's probably unlikely to have
data to back it up but it is at any time
domestic abuse is a very major both
mental and physical issue as well as all
the huge social ramifications that come
out of it and dealing with victims of
abuse of whatever sort to be clear
because abuse can take very many forms
has to take account of those very
complicated interactions and mental
distress ill health in some cases
post-traumatic stress and things that go
with that and then in some cases not all
physical impacts ranging from relatively
small to really quite profound
so this is a very serious issue and it
always needs a multidisciplinary
approach to dealing with it properly
yeah I just wanted a view could explain
how the package that the Home Secretary
has set out is strong when there was
nothing for accommodation for victims
who were fleeing obviously you'd rather
that they were able to stay in their
homes and the perpetrators were supposed
to move out but that isn't always
possible particularly given they need to
get away to somewhere where the
perpetrator doesn't know where they
and given that before this lockdown
refugees were having to turn away around
90 women and the same number of children
on an average night there's clearly a
need for a huge package of funding over
the next few months which there's been
no mention of at all so far well I think
the most important thing in the first
instance is is especially during a
lockdown as far as I understand it is to
make sure that we give channels of
communication for people who aren't able
to cry for help because they the the
sorts of places like like school where
you might be able to get out of your
your home and be able to have the
confidence to come forward to make sure
that there are alternatives provision
for that I think that was the urgent
thing that needed doing and of course
when it comes to supporting refugees we
are and and all of the supporting
infrastructure we're of course willing
to look at that and make sure that it's
as strong as it possibly can be and
thank you very much that concludes
today's Downing Street coronavirus
briefing thank you and we'll see you
again no doubt at the same time tomorrow
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News